                                                                                           2

   The last component, whose existence had been neglected until now recently, might well
   explain the observed acceleration if it is basically related to repulsive forces.

   As shown below, it is possible to obtain such an effect if we suppose the Universe
   consisting of:

   -   Particles with non-zero, positive mass and positive energy.

   -   Particles with zero mass: positive energy photons.

   -   Particles with non-zero, negative mass and negative energy.

   -   Particles with zero mass: negative energy photons.

Group theory accounts for this since a long time. Relativistic dynamics of a material point is
associated with the dynamic Poincaré group, which is based on the Lorentz group. If Γ is the
Gramm matrix:
(2)
                                        ⎡1 0      0    0⎤
                                        ⎢0 − 1 0       0 ⎥⎥
                                   Γ = ⎢
                                        ⎢0 0 − 1 0 ⎥
                                        ⎢                 ⎥
                                        ⎣0 0      0 − 1⎦


the Lorentz group can be represented by (4,4) matrices L . Hence:
(3)
                                        t
                                          LΓL = Γ

If C is the space-time translation vector:
(4)
                                                 ⎡ Δt ⎤
                                                 ⎢Δ x ⎥
                                             C = ⎢    ⎥
                                                 ⎢Δ y ⎥
                                                 ⎢    ⎥
                                                 ⎣Δ z ⎦

then Poincaré's group corresponds to the matrix:
(5)
                                          ⎡L C ⎤
                                          ⎢0 1 ⎥
                                          ⎣      ⎦


The Lorentz group owns four connected components. Using a terminology borrowed from
reference [1] the first two ones form the orthochron subgroup and do not reverse the time
coordinate. The last two ones constitute the antichron subset and their components reverse
time. The Poincaré group, owing ten dimensions, inherits this property and also owns four
connected components. Let us call Lo the matrices of the antichron subgroup of the Lorentz
