                                                                                               1



This result could also have been obtained starting from the expression:
(44)
                                                G m m'
                                        F = −
                                                  d2

One advantage of such a description of the « dark energy » is that its nature becomes rather
simple: its components are merely the same as those of normal matter, but simply with
negative mass and energy. They are no longer « exotic » but consist of:

   -   Protons and antiprotons with negative mass and energy
   -   Neutrons and antineutrons with negative mass and energy
   -   Electrons and anti-electrons with negative mass and energy
   -   Photons with negative energy


6) About the cosmic acceleration

In cosmology, observations show a reacceleration of the Universe for high redshifts. Can we
reach such a result by identifying the dark energy to this negative energy-matter? To do so a
cosmological model will be built, based on a solution in the form of a couple of conjugated
metrics ( g +, g - ). We take riemannian metrics of signature ( + - - - ) adding the hypothesis of
homogeneity and isotropy. This leads us to Robertson-Walker metrics:
(45)
                                            1
                                                 ( d u 2 + u 2 d θ 2 + u 2 sin 2θ d ϕ 2 )
                          2             2
              d s 2 = c d t 2 − R (+t )
                                            k 2
                                          1+ u
                                            4

Our Universe is bimetric. Points of this manifold can be located using an arbitrary frame of
reference. In the above expression we find

- a time-marker t
- space markers u , θ , ϕ

The first term designates the time coordinate, and the three others the space coordinates. Such
quantities can be considered as simple numbers, or angles, and be written:

                                           [τ ,u,θ,ϕ ]


Let us show that theses coordinates are a common frame of reference for two sets of mass-
points corresponding to positive and negative energies. Consider two points A and B, with
coordinates:

                            [ uA , θ A , ϕA ]   and    [ uB , θ B , ϕB ]
                                                           B




If these two sets of numbers remain constant through time, such points are co-moving. Since
we are in a situation of isotropy and homogeneity, points A and B can be linked through
