                                                                                              6

Then the action of the group on its momentum space is written:

                                      q’ = λ ν q

                                 P’ = λ Lo P

                          M’ = Lo M tLo + ( C tP tLo - Lo P tC )

Hence, reversing the sign of λ brings a reversal of charge, space and time, in other words a
CPT-symmetry.


4) Construction of an interaction between positive energy particles and negative energy
particles. Bimetric configuration, bigravity.

By choosing the complete Poincaré group, we obtained an invisible « second matter species ».
In order for it to have the properties of dark energy, laws of gravitational interaction giving a
repulsive nature to this « matter-dark energy » are needed.

Writing Einstein’s equation:
(20)
                                         S=χT–gΛ

S is a geometrical tensor, i.e. Einstein's tensor S(g) built from the metric g associated to a
four-dimensional manifold. T is a tensor density representing the energy-matter content of the
Universe, χ is Einstein’s constant:
(21)
                                                8π G
                                          χ =−
                                                  c2

and Λ is the cosmological constant.

g belongs to a function space sometimes called hyperspace. The Einstein tensor is, in absolute
value, the gradient of the Hilbert functional:
(22)
                                 H ( g ) = ∫ ( a R ( g ) + b ) d Vg
                                           M


in which a and b are constants and R the scalar curvature. This functional is invariant by
diffeomorphism. Einstein’s constant χ = 1/a derives from constant a only, while a and b give
the cosmological constant Λ = b/2a . Let us set Λ = 0, which amounts to take b = 0. Thereafter
we will not need it. So we restrict (22) to:
(23)
                                     H ( g ) = ∫ a R ( g ) d Vg
                                               M


We build the Einstein tensor S as a gradient of this fonctional in the space of metrics.
Associated with a tensor density T we obtain the equation:
(24)
