                                                                                                   20

   -   We assume that matter, with positive or negative mass has a finite lifetime, even the latter
       is very large. Then we assume that the O(3) symmetry is recovered in a distant future. As
       a consequence the generalized gauge process restarts and rules the cosmic evolution. The
       constants of physics vary. In particular the speed of light tends to an almost nil value.
   -   The dynamics of the Universe corresponds to a bimetric description, going with a system
       of two coupled field equations [3]. It contains two kinds of species, with positive or
       negative mass or energy.
   -   This can be derived from geometrical grounds. The inversion of the arrow of time of one
       species comes from the geometrical structure of the Universe, considered as the two-fold
       cover of a projective, which brings both T and P-symmetry. The inversion of the mass
       and energy goes with the inversion of the time (T-symmetry). Electric charge can be
       given to the relativistic mass-points, considering the Universe as a five-dimensional
       bundle. As a first order solution, the Kaluza metric fits the five dimensional field
       extension, as introduced by J.M. Souriau in 1964.

Choosing the description based on two coupled five-dimensional geometrical structures, inspired
by the vision of Andrei Sakharov [7]: twin universe model, we may think about the geometric
structure of the two boundary 4d-universes, linking the two, when the velocity of the light is
“almost infinite” or “almost nil“. Among the five dimensions, one must disappear. The five
dimensions are:

   -   Space ( x , y , z )
   -   Time t
   -   Fifth dimension ζ

P-symmetry holds in our fold of the Universe (in our positive energy world). The polarization of
photons is for an example a proof that such symmetry can be found in nature.

ζ-symmetry holds. As shown in [1] this corresponds to charge conjugation and matter-antimatter
duality. We find antimatter in our positive energy world, so that ζ-symmetry is evidenced in
natural phenomena.

We don’t find negative energy particles. The “second world”, with negative mass and energy
corresponds to T-symmetry. As a conclusion, in the two metrics associated to the boundary
universe, time disappears and the signature becomes Euclidean:


                                              (----)


The length, in the two boundary Universes (one corresponding to an "infinite" value of the speed
of light and the second to a "nil" value of this velocity), is an imaginary quantity. The figure 17 is
a didactic image showing the geometric structure of the "Big Bang" according to this model:
