2                                                       Jean-Pierre Petit, Gilles dAgostini


Finder Algorithm allowing to identify voids in redshift surveys and to measure
their size and underdensity. Interesting three-dimensional views of voids, based on
the IRAS survey, are shown in his paper [8].
2D-simulations involving the same interaction schema had been performed by Pe-
tit [9] in 1995, also giving a VLS lacunar structure. More recently (July 2013)
Izumi et al. [10] suggested that the distortions observed on the images of distant
galaxies, if considered as due to some negative gravitational lensing effect being
radial instead of azimutal, would lead to a somewhat different mapping of the
invisible matter.
However, all these works contradicted Bondis result of 1957 [11] based on General
Relativity (GR), hence on the assumption that the Universe is a M4 manifold,
coupled to a single metric g obeying Einsteins equation. The Newtonian approxi-
mation gives such a metric a time independent quasi-Lorentzian form :

                                  g µν = η µν + εγ µν                                  (1)


A subsequent development of the field equation into a series, combined to similar
approximation of the equations of geodesics, provides Newtons law and Poisson’s
equation. Bondi expressed the result as :
                              2−
                               →                 −
                                                 → −  →
                          (1) d r1         (2) ( r2 − r1 )
                        mi      2
                                   = Gm(1)
                                       p ma     →
                                                −     →
                                                      −                                (2)
                              dt               | r2 − r1 |3

accounting for the gravitational action of a mass (2) on a mass (1), and decided
to introduce three kinds of masses :
- inertial mass mi
- passive gravitational mass mp
- active gravitational mass ma
Because of the equivalence principle the first two are identical, so that Equ. 2
becomes :
                             d2 −
                                →
                                r1           → −
                                             −     →
                                        (2) ( r2 − r1 )
                                   = Gm                                      (3)
                                            |−
                                             →
                                             r2 − −
                                                  →
                                        a
                              dt2                 r1 |3

In other words: according to GR, a positive mass attracts any kind of mass, what-
ever positive or negative. Conversely, a negative mass would repel any kind of
mass. In particular, if one considers a couple of masses with equal absolute values
but opposite signs, the negative mass escapes, while the positive mass runs after it,
both being accelerated the same way. To increase such paradoxical phenomenon,
because the masses have opposite signs, energy and momentum are conserved.
In addition, according to Bondi’s analysis two negative masses mutually repel,
so that negative matter cannot form clusters by gravitational accretion through
Jeans instability.
Bondi tried to integrate such puzzling runaway particles in GR without any suc-
cess. Only much later, in 1989, Bonnor [12] also published a paper devoted to
negative mass. He considered the runaway phenomenon as preposterous and stud-
ied a universe only filled with negative masses, immediatly pointing out that this
has nothing to do with physics and astrophysics, for such a medium cannot form
stars and galaxies through gravitational instability.
