as it can be easily verified, with the difference that the anti-fermions (21)
now have negative energies and masses.
We insist on that fact : the χ-states as in Eq. (21) remain the same but
are interpreted in a different way. Under the unitary PT transformation, the
following changes arise

               E → −E , m → −m , xµ → −xµ , pµ → −pµ

but they leave the different elements of the χ-states invariant whether it is
the normalization factor         s
                                   E +m
                                       2E
the plane wave part
                                 e−i(~p.~x−Et)
or the fractions inside the bi-spinors because the signs of both numerators
and denominators simultaneously change.
Another point is the fact that, in Eq.(32), by opposition to Eq.(25), the
unitary PT connects the sectors ψ1 − χ1 , ψ2 − χ2 . This is due to the transfor-
mations of such an operator on position, momentum and angular momentum
operators
                          ~x → ~x , ~p → p~ ⇒ ~
                                              L→~   L                      (33)
(compare with Eq.(26)) implying the conservation of the spin vector. This
implies that unitary P T acts on spin up (resp. spin down) ψ-states to give
spin up (resp. spin down) χ-states.


4    Conclusion
We have shown that negative masses can take place in relativistic quantum
mechanics up to the condition of being related to negative energies. The uni-
tary PT transformation we propose acts on states associated with positive
energy and mass fermions to give states associated with negative energy and
mass anti-fermions. This is an alternative to the anti-unitary charge conju-
gation operator leading to the same states but then subtended by positive
energy and mass anti-fermions.
We argue, in complete agreement with [11], that there are two types of anti-
matter. The ”classical” one, created in laboratories and associated with an
anti-unitary PT, and the primordial antimatter reached by the unitary PT,

                                      12
