Only a few components do form a group, i.e. L↑+ (named the restricted
Lorentz group ; it is the one considered by physicists exclusively concerned
with positive masses and energies ), L↑+ ∪ L↑− (named the orthochronous
Lorentz group), L↑+ ∪ L↓+ (named the proper Lorentz group ), L↑+ ∪ L↓− and
the set of four components referred to as the entire Lorentz group.
Only one of these options, the proper Lorentz group, is recognized as a known
Lie group, namely SO(1, 3)

                          L↑+ ∪ P T L↑+ ⇒ SO(1, 3)

    If we now add to these transformations the four abelian translations and
their PT version, we obtain two components generating a subgroup of the
entire Poincar group. One thing well-known about this group is that it
admits two Casimir operators, the first one having the square of the mass
as eigenvalues. The only requirement on these eigenvalues is their reality.
The mass itself can thus be positive or negative. Besides, the meaning of
the second Casimir operator constructed from the Pauli-Lubanski 4-vector
is clear when limited to isotropy groups. In this case, one can choose a
particular time-like momentum 4-vector, say

                                      m
                                           
                                     0 
                                                                            (11)
                                       
                                     0 
                                       

                                      0

and see that the second Casimir operator is related, up to the square of the
mass (again), to the spin of the particles. These are very well-known facts.
    Now, let us have a look on the 4-vector (11). If the mass is positive
(respectively negative), it belongs to the future (respectively past) light cone.
An orthochronous transformation is realized through a matrix whose first
element is bigger than one (it is the ”↑” symbol). So, when applied to a
4-vector like Eq. (11), it gives rise to another time-like 4-vector within the
same part of the cone light : if the mass is positive and the 4-vector belongs
to the future part, its image will also stand in the future part. If the mass
is negative, the 4-vector lives in the past part and stays in this part after
an orthochronous transformation. Only antichronous transformations (the
”↓” symbol) can join the two parts. If the mass is positive at the start
and the four-vector oriented from past to future, it will change its direction
but also the sign of the associated mass. This is due to the fact that the

                                        6
