Combined with the parity operator (15), we are led to the following unitary
PT transformation

                ψ(t, ~x) → iγ 0 γ 1 γ 2 γ 3 ψ(−t, −~x) = γ 5 ψ(−t, −~x)     (19)

The PT-symmetry within the Dirac formalism is not just only related to
opposite space-time coordinates, it is also subtended by the γ 5 matrix.
    We are used to interpret this matrix as the one realizing the chirality
operator. But it is not just so. Indeed, the γ 5 matrix anticommutes with
each of the γ µ ’s. Acting on the Dirac equation (12), this implies that either
the sign of each of the pµ ’s has to change (which is expected in a unitary
PT symmetry) or, in an equivalent way, the mass has to become negative.
Such developments can also be found in the quantum field theory context
[18] where it was quoted that the γ 5 chiral transformation is associated to
the fact that the sign of the mass term in the Lagrangian is reversed. Let us
also mention as an aside that the γ 5 matrix has also been associated to the
charge operator [19]. More precisely, in [19], it was required that the Dirac
parity operator should always be of the form (15) whether it is defined in
the fermion or antifermion wavefunction space. And this had consequences
that the fermion field and the charge-conjugate (related to γ 5 ) antifermion
field obey opposite-mass Dirac equations. However, despite of the fact that
this approach is close to ours, it is different in the sense that we are not only
in the QFT field but mostly because we are concerned here with negative
energies.
    Together with previous remarks, this fact tends to prove that the matrix
  5
γ has not yet revealed all its wealthes...
    Anyway, the matrix γ 5 is essentially considered here as the one for what
we call a M-symmetry : m → −m. Such a symmetry is naturally connected
to a unitary PT-transformation.
    Let us now analyse the impact of such considerations on the four solutions
of the Dirac equation.
As well known, the free Dirac   √ equation (12) has positive as well as nega-
tive energies p0 = ±Ep = ± p2 + m2 . The four solutions consist in two
solutions with positive energies E = Ep (spin up and spin down, respec-
tively, according to the eigenvalues of the third component of the spin vector
S3 = 21 diag(1, −1, 1, −1)) which write in the p-representation (in which pµ




                                          8
