solutions have been considered within a Schwarzschildde Sitter geometry [5]
or in various aspects of physics [6], going from wormholes to strings. In [7], it
was shown that negative mass can produce a Schwarzschild solution without
violating the energy condition. The Dirac equation has also been considered
with the two possibilities of signs for the mass and it was shown [8] that
positive as well as negative energies can arise.
    Besides these theoretical contributions, a negative effective inertial mass
has been experimentally realized by cooling rubidium atoms with lasers as
stated in [9].
    A further reason for this renewed interest in negative masses is the fol-
lowing. We have mentioned the runaway effect as one of the main causes for
leaving these masses away. What is it from ? As well known, general relativ-
ity stands that Universe is a manifold equipped with a metric gµν according
to the Einstein equation
                                  1
                             Rµν − Rgµν = χTµν
                                  2
The matter energy tensor Tµν is the source of the gravitational field.
    The paradox comes from the fact that it is arbitrarily assumed that par-
ticles of positive or negative masses immersed in the same gravitational field,
react in the same way. Indeed, as there is only one metric, the effect on
each particle from that field created by a positive or negative (in that case
T → −T ) mass is the following :
   • Positive mass attracts both other positive masses and negative masses

   • Negative mass repels both other negative masses and positive masses
This means that the particle of negative mass pursues, in a uniformly ac-
celerated movement with a conserved kinetic energy, the particle of positive
mass. Indeed, due to their respective signs, the kinetic energy of the positive
mass is simultaneously, while remaining in the same ratio, compensated by
that of the positive mass irrespective of the increase of the speed.
    Besides the fact that this runaway effect violates the action-reaction prin-
ciple, it also disagrees with experimental data [10].
    If we deviate from the assumption that positive and negative masses
react in the same way, we need two metrics and a set of two field equations,
generalizing the Einstein one. A model ( the Janus cosmological model or
JCM) with such two coupled field equations has been proposed [11]. The

                                       2
