subsequent Newtonian approximation provides the following corresponding
interaction rules :
    • Positive mass attracts positive masses and repels negative masses
    • Negative mass attracts negative masses and repels positive masses
The JCM perfectly fits available observational data [12] and restores the
action-reaction as well as the equivalence principles. This certainly gives
substance to the study of negative masses.
    Despite of the growing interest in negative masses, there were very few
papers devoted to the subject within the quantum mechanical paradigm. Let
us cite [13] where the concept of negative mass is used to solve Schrdinger
equations.
    The purpose of this article is to initiate a study of the impact of negative
masses on relativistic quantum mechanics by taking a new look at its stan-
dards such as the Dirac equation (for a review of these standards, see, for
instance, Section 2.3 of [14]).
    The reason to do so is that relativistic quantum mechanics naturally puts
in evidence negative energies having an unpleasant consequence which can
be avoided if masses are negative, too. Indeed, one of the arguments for
having given up the Klein-Gordon equation is the fact that the density of
                                                                         E
probability is, up to the square of a normalization factor, the ratio m    . It is
obvious to see that this probability is positive if energies and masses have
the same sign. So, negative energies can be restored if masses are negative,
too.
    The contents is distributed as follows. In Section 2, we show that if the
time-reversal operator is chosen as unitary, masses become negative (while
an anti-unitary one leads to positive masses). In Section 3, we realize this
unitary operator within the Dirac formalism. States corresponding to an-
tifermions are then associated with negative masses and energies. We con-
clude in Section 4.
    We work in the following in the standard units. Greek letters run from 0
to 3 while Latin indices are equal to 1, 2, 3.


2     Unitarity of the time-reversal operator
First, let us recall that a unitary operator U is defined through
                            < Uψ|Uφ >=< ψ|φ >                                 (1)

                                        3
