                                            On evidence for negative energies and masses
                                              in the Dirac equation through a unitary
                                                       time-reversal operator




arXiv:1809.05046v2 [quant-ph] 7 Nov 2018
                                                             N. Debergh 1 , J.-P. Petit 2 and G. D’Agostini 3
                                            1
                                                Department of agronomy, Haute Ecole Charlemagne, 3, rue Saint-Victor, 4500 Huy,
                                                                     Belgium, nathalie.debergh@hech.be
                                                                                 2
                                                                                     jp.petit@mailaps.org
                                                                            3
                                                                                dagostinigilles@mailaps.org

                                                Keywords : Quantum mechanics, Dirac equation, discrete symmetry, negative masses, antimatter

                                                                                        Abstract
                                                      We review the standards of relativistic quantum mechanics such
                                                  as the Dirac equation under the concept of negative masses. We show
                                                  that negative energies are acceptable provided the masses are simul-
                                                  taneously negative. Negative energy and mass anti-fermions are ob-
                                                  tained from positive energy and mass fermions through a unitary PT
                                                  transformation.


                                           1      Introduction
                                           Until recently, the concept of negative masses was relegated to the field of
                                           exotic, and even far-fetched, ideas.
                                                Proposed by Hermann Bondi [1] and revisited by William B. Bonnor [2] in
                                           the context of general relativity, negative masses have been considered by a
                                           few physicists only due to the fact that they have never been detected in lab-
                                           oratories. Let us mention among these avant-garde physicists, M.A. Markov
                                           who, from a previously proposed second-order equation for spin 12 particles
                                           [3], has put in evidence two first-order equations, one with a ”plus”’ sign and
                                           the other one with a ”minus” sign multiplying the mass [4]. Nevertheless, for
                                           the reason of being qualified as ”non-physical”and because they could imply
                                           a very unpleasant runaway effect, negative masses have been rejected by the
                                           majority of the scientific community for many years.
                                                However, minds are evolving nowadays : the possibility of negative masses
                                           is seriously reconsidered. As examples, let us mention that negative mass

                                                                                             1
