    All singularities disappear, r = Rs corresponds to ρ = 0. In this point the determinant of
the metric
                                             (1 + Log ch ρ)2 2
                                 det g = Rs4                th ρ,
                                                Log ch ρ
is no longer zero. The metric is well defined for all values of ρ. If we embed the surface in a
3D-Euclidean space we can define the meridians, corresponding to

                                                 dr2
                                        dΣ2 =      Rs
                                                      + dz 2                                  (12)
                                                1− r

      And we immediately get the meridians as∗

                                                                    z2
                                      r
                                         r
                             z = ±2Rs       − 1,       r2 = Rs +       .                      (13)
                                         Rs                        4Rs

      The surface is a space bridge, a “2D diabolo” linking two 2D-Euclidean surfaces.




                                Fig. 2. The 2D diabolo embedded in R3 .

    The problem of the signature has disappeared. From Lagrange equations we can calculate
the geodesics in the [ρ, ϕ] coordinate system. If embedded, the surface owns a throat circle whose
perimeter is 2πRs . We can shape the surface as a twofold F (+) and F (−) cover of a M2 manifold
with a 1D common circular border, and create induced mapping between adjacent points M (+)
and M (−) .
    Figure 4 shows the projection αβγ of a geodesic ABC (see Fig. 2) tangent to the common
boundary, which ensures the continuity of the geodesics of the fold F (+) with the ones of the fold
F (−) (dotted lines). Radial line λµν is the image of a geodesic meridian curve LMN of Fig. 2.
This will be important for the following.
    Figure 5 shows how vicinities of adjacent points are linked by enantiomorphy relationship.
    Figures 3–5 correspond to a reduction of our representation space to a 2D Euclidean rep-
resentation space, through a non-isometric imbedding which artificially transforms the throat
into a pleat and couples points through an adjacent and enantiomorphic relationship. “The circle
owns no center and there is nothing inside”, because we are out of the considered 2D surface,
the 2D diabolo.
  ∗
      Erratum page 11




                                                  3
