with
                                                  t(−) = −t(+) .                             (21)
    In the neighborhood of ρ = 0 it is possible to write the nearby expressions:
                                      2       ρ2  (+) 2
                               ds(+)        =       dt      − 2 dρ2 − Rs2 dϕ2 ,             (22a)
                                                2

                                      2ρ2  (−) 2
                               ds(−)        =dt      − 2 dρ2 − Rs2 dϕ2 .                     (22b)
                                         2
    The inversion of the time variable does not imply a change in the sign of the proper time, and
from one fold to the other ds(−) takes the reins of ds(+) . It is not possible
                                                                            to have
                                                                                    an inversion
in the length measure along a geodesic. In other words we have ds(+) ds(−) > 0. But t(+)
and t(−) are nothing more than “time markers”, simple coordinates, and thus one will have:
dt(−) = − dt(+) . So here one finds again the central idea of differential geometry: the length
element has an only intrinsic reality. Lagrange equations give always in the vicinity of ρ = 0 the
relations:

                                                   ϕ̈ = ρ̈ = 0.                              (23)
    These functions are linear and monotonic as a function of the proper times (lengths s(+) and
s(−) ) that enchain themselves in passing from one fold to the other without inversion.

                            dt(+)    C             dt(−)   −C
                               (+)
                                   = 2,               (−)
                                                          = 2 ,     C = Cst.                 (24)
                            ds      ρ              ds       ρ
    The sign of the constant C depends on the sense adopted for the passage from one fold to the
other. The object is thus a “black hole” and a “white fountain” at the same time. But, if measured
with variable t(+) the passage is achievable only in an infinite time. If the object results from
the implosion of a neutron star, its mass would be transferred to the negative energy region. But
for the observers located in one of the folds such phenomena of implosion–explosion will appear
to be “freezed in time”.
    As shown in Ref. 16 time-inversion goes with mass and energy inversion. In Refs. 11 and 12,
according to Janus Cosmological Model the universe is composed by positive and negative energy
                                                                        (+)     (−)
(and mass if they own) particles, respectively described by metrics gµν and gµν , solutions of a
coupled field equation system. Spacetime bridges operate mass inversion. From Ref. 11 we know
that masses with opposite signs repel each other. On another hand negative matter does not
interact with positive matter by electromagnetic, strong or weak interaction.


2      Conclusion and Discussion
If black holes exist and swallow matter this last, instead to be crushed in a central singularity,
would be discretely rejected as an invisible negative matter.
    The main feature of the theory presented here is the mass (and space) inversion process. The
advantage is to avoid the puzzling problem of a “central singularity” and to explain the fate of
matter swallowed by black holes. But it implies injection of negative energy (and mass if the
                                                                           (+)     (−)
own) particles in spacetime, considered as a manifold plus two metrics gµν and gµν .
    As precised in Ref. 9 we assumed that particles of opposite masses do not interact neither
by electromagnetic forces nor strong or weak forces, they could not enter into a collision. Some
colleagues have criticized this idea arguing that “the particles are on the same spacetime”. The
answer to this question is: if one considers the problem on purely geometrical grounds, those
encounters would be “geometrically impossible” because the two subsets move along disjoint
families of geodesics.

                                                        9
