                   Fig. 9. Geodesical path in a [ρ, ϕ] representation (plane, θ = π/2).


     By letting a family of geodesics play a particular role among the coordi-nates lines
     Gauss introduced a useful coordinate system. Consider a 4D space with hyperbolic
     metric with signature (1, −1, −1, −1). Assume we can imbed a 3D hypersurface Σ3 ,
     imbedded in the 4D space Σ4 . Assume, in some place, we can define a vector n
     normal to Σ3 , which satisfies:
                              n0 n0 + n1 n1 + n1 n1 + n1 n1 > 0
                                                            

     which, in the familiar language of special relativity theory, implies that Σ3 is “oriented
     in space” (whereas the vector n, normal to s, is “oriented in time”).
     We introduce in the surface Σ3 three coordinates x∗1 , x∗2 , x∗3 which serve to charac-
     terise the point P ∗ ∈ Σ3 . Through each point P ∗ of the 3D surface Σ3 we draw the
     geodesic which is orthogonal to Σ3 at P ∗ . These geodesic will form a non-intersecting
     curves in some neighborhood M of Σ3 such that, through each point P of M there
     will be exactly one of the geodesics constructed. We introduce now, in the entire
     4D domain M , coordinates as follows: Given P , we consider the geodesic passing
     through P and its original point P ∗ ∈ Σ3 . We define the coordinate xi of P in terms
     of the arc length P ∗ P of the geodesic and of the coordinate x∗i of P ∗ .
     In this manner, the three coordinates x1 , x2 , x3 remain constant along any geodesic
     perpendicular to Σ3 . It follows that, along such a geodesic,
                                       ds2 = (dẋ)2 ,      g00 = 1.

    This is the classical way Gaussian coordinates are defined. This is possible if and only if
g00 6= 0, if the term of the line element related to time-marker is nonzero. Note that, in Fig. 1,




                                                 Fig. 10


                                                    7
