Athena effective observing efficiency was further shown not to depend at first order on the cold time of X-IFU.
On the other hand, to optimize the Athena scheduling performance, the X-IFU duty cycle should be larger than
the fraction of time allocated to X-IFU.

                 5. TECHNOLOGY DEMONSTRATION AND SCHEDULE
A demonstration plan of critical technologies and design has been elaborated in view of the mission adoption
and later the instrument Preliminary Design Review. This plan includes demonstration activities at different
levels, from key technological technologies to the coupling of several subsystem demonstrators.
   At subsystem level, the items considered in the plan are :

   • the FPA and associated technologies, e.g. the TES array, the Kevlar suspensions, the SQUIDs, internal
     harnesses. . .
   • the hybrid cooler, e.g. the ADR superconducting coil. . .
   • the cryo-AC, e.g. the cryo-AC TES chip and CFEE. . .
   • the thermal filters, e.g. their resistance to vibration loads. . .
   • the aperture cylinder, e.g. EMC tightness, contamination protection. . .
   • the readout electronics, e.g. for the DRE: the RAS and DEMUX modules, the DC/DC converter, and for
     the WFEE: the ASIC holding the low-noise amplifier. . .
   • the cold harnesses, e.g. technology trade-off between looms and shielded twisted pairs. . .
   • the optical filters of the filter wheel

Not all sub-systems are involved in the plan, as some have already reached or exceeded the required level of
technology readiness. Those activities are mostly funded by the national funding agencies, with support from
ESA in some cases.
   At system level, there are two main activities foreseen:

   • The first one involves the first demonstration of a 2K Core 1) to validate the integration of the FPA DM
     with the subKelvin cooler (EM model from Safari) and 2K core structure, 2) to assess the sensitivity of the
     2K core performances against external perturbations (microvibrations, thermal stability, magnetic field),
     3) to characterize the recycling phase and stabilization time needed after recycling phase, and finally 4)
     to determine the best way to thermally regulate the 50mK stage (=T0 stage) of FPA DM. This activity
     is funded in part by ESA in the context of the Core Technology Program ”Detector Cooling System”, and
     is supported by JAXA through the key procurement of a 2K Joule Thomson cooler.80, 81 The activity will
     rely on a demonstration model for the FPA, holding an array of 80 pixels readout by a frequency domain
     multiplexing lab electronics (note that TDM readout was selected as the X-IFU baseline after the design
     activities of the FPA DM had started).
   • The second one involves the demonstration of a multiplexed readout chain featuring design solutions for
     X-IFU (e.g. balanced differential readout, impedance matching, filtering at 2K, etc...), which were put
     in place to mitigate two risks: EMI/EMC compatibility and the impact of parasitic couplings on the
     dynamic behaviour of the TDM signals. The intention is to validate early on these design choices, as
     well as the associated interfaces between the different elements of the chain, in particular well in advance
     of the EM test campaign. This activity constitutes the so-called early verification phase. It will rely
     on the development and coupled testing of demonstration models of the X-IFU electronics (WFEE +
     DRE), as well as breadboards to study the electrical interface between the FPA, WFEE and cold harness.
     The demonstration electronics will eventually be coupled to a dedicated cryogenic test platform, housed
     in a commercial two-stage ADR cryostat, hosting a focal plane array placed at 50 mK with a kilopixel
     TES array and associated cold readout electronics82 (see Figure 26 left). As discussed above, the choice to
     implement TDM readout for X-IFU was based mainly on the maturity level of this solution. Demonstration
     in laboratory set-up have shown performances compliant, if not exceeding X-IFU requirements.31, 41
