  The XIFU cold harness is composed of several harnesses and interfaces:
      3 harnesses for the FPA Detector signals
      1 harness for the Cryogenic Anti-Coincidence (CryoAC) signals and including the 2Kcore
         housekeeping (HK) and control signals (out of scope of this document)
      1 harness for the Hybrid Cooler ADR Coil current lead (out of scope of this document)




                                            Figure 1:
                  Figure 19. Cold harness overview,    XIFUthe
                                                    showing Cold   Harnesses
                                                               three types of harnesses used for X-IFU.


2.12 The Instrument Control Unit
The ICU 1.4       OPEN
           embeds the       ITEMS
                       instrument  central software (Boot software and Application software) and provides all
the communication and synchronization capabilities to command and control the instrument. It is the unique
        Temperature of thermalization stage of the harness as it depends on the cryostat design
communication node with the satellite: in flight, all the commands and telemetry are normally exchanged through
            done by Industry
the ICU. In order to keep the ICU as independent from other units as possible, the instrument design limits the
complexity of the interfaces enabling the ICU control and command: 1) All instrument’s units are connected
to the ICUTrade-off  between
             through an internalTSP  vs Looms
                                 SpaceWire   (SPW)wires   is open..
                                                       network. TheTSP
                                                                    ICU wires are better
                                                                        is connected     forspacecraft
                                                                                     to the  performance,   buta
                                                                                                       through
SPW link.   more  delicate for manufacturing    and    implementation, and  more  demanding    or constraining
            in terms of interfaces (rejected heat loads, mass, volume, stiffness, bending radius). Looms
   The Instrument Control
          are easier      Unit (ICU)
                     to implement    implements
                                   and          the following
                                       less constraining,   butfunctions:
                                                                 performance is not guaranteed at this
            stage.
   • To synchronize    photon readout.
               o Interfaces                    This function
                                   of the Cryostat                enables
                                                           with the    ColdaHarnesses
                                                                                 synchronousmust    readout    of the
                                                                                                          remain        pixels so that
                                                                                                                      compatible     withtransient
                                                                                                                                           these
     perturbations generated by the multiplexing (when switching from a pixel to another) do not happen when
                     2 options.
     the sampling of other readout chains occurs (see §2.4.2)
               o The interface requirements expressed so far (previously IRD5.0, now in E-IRD) cover
   • To manage instrument
                     the envelope internal    communications.
                                         (essentially,      the TSPThis         function provides
                                                                          configuration,         generallythe more
                                                                                                                X-IFUdemanding
                                                                                                                         units with ainlow    level
                                                                                                                                           terms
     bi-directionalofcapability
                        interfaces).of  exchanging      digital   information
   • To manage platform communications. This functions provides the X-IFU with a capability to send stan-
     dardized space packets to the spacecraft, and to receive standardized space packets from the spacecraft
   • To manage     observability
              This document belongs toand  commandability
                                       CNES. Its information cannot be distributed, published or reproduced without a CNES agreement
   • To distribute time information to subsystems. This function distributes time information (time references,
     time broadcast. . . ) from which units needing a time stamping capability can derive an adequate time
     reference
   • To ensure instrument safety. This function monitors critical instrument parameters, and performs (or
     requests) the passivation actions (including from the spacecraft) needed to avoid failure propagation inside
     the instrument
   • To manage instrument expertise. This function gathers all the observability and commandability services
     needed to monitor the performance of the main readout chain. As the needs related to expertise go far
     beyond the classical command and control function, it is presented as a separated function
