    The CAS, alongside the FW, is mechanically supported by the Filter Wheel support Structure (FWSS, plate),
to be accommodated in the SIM at the entrance of the instrument (see Figure 18). The MXS photon flashes will
be synchronized with the instrument time reference, thereby allowing their identification in the science telemetry.
The flashes will typically last 1 second and be generated every 67 seconds.
   As stated above, the MXS are controlled by the FW electronics.

2.10 The 2K Core Controller
The 2K Core Controller (2KCC) is a unit which groups all the items controlling the 2K Core in a single box. Its
main function is to perform the internal thermal control of the 2K Core, and in particular of the T0 (50 mK)
stage of the FPA. The 2KCC merges the Hybrid Cooler Controller electronics (HybCCE) and the FPA Auxiliary
Board (FAB).
   The HybCCE is in charge of controlling the hybrid cooler. Its functions are:

   • To provide electrical power to the ADR magnetic coil and the associated 3 He sorption stage,
   • To perform temperature and voltage acquisitions of the different items in the cooler,
   • To manage the temperature regulation of the cooler, based on the cooler temperatures and ADR current
     control.

The FAB is in charge of the:

   • Housekeeping of the FPA (readout of FPA thermal sensors),
   • Powering the FPA heaters,
   • Control the FPA B-coil used to optimize the magnetic field at the detector interface.

    Additionally, the 2KCC is in charge of the housekeeping (thermal sensors readout and heaters activation)
for the 2K Core frame (2KC HK) (2K plate, 2K EMC covers, 2K and 4K thermal links, etc.). The 2KCC also
includes a DC/DC converter (also called LVPS or CV) for the supply of secondary power to the other parts of
the unit (FAB, HybCCE & 2KC HK).

2.11 Cold harnesses
The signals generated within the cryostat must be propagated to the warm electronics. This is achieved via
cold harnesses, which are divided in 5 bundles: 1) 3 harnesses for the FPA Detector signals, 2) 1 harness for
the cryo-AC signals and including the 2K core housekeeping (HK) and control signals, and 3) 1 harness for the
Hybrid Cooler ADR Coil current lead. Those harnesses are a critical part of any cryogenic system, as they must
fulfill several requirements: 1) low thermal loads, implying the use of ultra thin, low thermal conductance wires
(stainless steel or phosphor bronze, as thin as 100µm), 2) a careful optimization between joule dissipation and
conductive losses, 3) a limited crosstalk between wires, and 4) a large number of wires to be accommodated via
connectors on the cold side, where room is highly constrained.
     There are two technologies to be considered for X-IFU: Twisted Shielded Pairs (TSPs) versus looms. The
current understanding is that TSP wires are better for performance, but more delicate for manufacturing and
implementation, and more demanding or constraining in terms of interfaces (rejected heat loads, mass, volume,
stiffness, bending radius). Looms are easier to implement and less constraining, but may have a worse perfor-
mance. Because it is believed that manufacturing and thermal issues can be overcome, TSPs are currently the
preferred option. The wiring of the cold harnesses for X-IFU is presented in Figure 19.
