impacts is being debated within the community,89 this very same community that should lead by example.90
In this context, a life cycle assessment (LCA) of X-IFU is being performed to evaluate the global footprint of
developing X-IFU along its complete life cycle. The LCA will identify the contribution of all life cycle phases
(from cradle to grave) to several environmental impacts, including global warming (in particular CO2 emissions),
waste, water consumption, raw materials consumption, human health, and biodiversity. The idea is simply to
identify hot spots and take corrective actions whenever possible, while not jeopardizing the ultimate success of
the project. X-IFU has already committed to reduce significantly its global travel footprint,91 starting even in
the pre-covid era, but the LCA will enable us to go one step further by identifying those actions in our daily
activities that can lead to substantial reductions of our impact, such as switching off test equipments over night,
and sharing resources and infrastructures wherever possible. At the time of this writing, the assessment has not
yet been completed, but the data have been collected from all sub-systems making up the X-IFU. There has
been enthusiastic support for the tedious data collection, which is now extrapolated when partial and properly
modeled with a dedicated LCA software. There is great hope that the quality of the assessment will enable clear
guidelines to be formulated for building the X-IFU, while lowering its environmental impact.

                                    11. FROM THE SRR ONWARD
The discovery of an unanticipated cost increase of Athena by the ESA executive now imposes us the challenge of
a design-to-cost exercise to bring the cost of Athena within an envelope affordable by the ESA science program
(∼ 1.3 G€). This exercise should preserve the flagship capabilities of the Athena mission. The X-IFU team,
including its international partners, has the expertise and is committed to enter this exercise in a pro-active way,
focusing first on the way to simplify the cooling chain. Let alone for feeling accountable for the tax-payer money
already spent, the scientific and technical expertise developed over the years should not be wasted, and will be
a critical input of the design-to-cost exercise, which will start from the X-IFU design presented at the SRR.
    The extent by which X-IFU will change will also depend on the changes applying to the overall telescope and
spacecraft, which are under ESA responsibility. A close collaboration between ESA and the instrument teams
will be required for Athena to retain the capability to reach most, if not all, the scientific objectives spelled
out for the Hot and Energetic Universe, and whose priorities have been repeated constantly since its original
formulation in 2013.

                                            12. CONCLUSIONS
X-IFU entered its system requirement review with a consolidated design and performance budgets understood.
As an indication of the extent of the work done for the SRR, the data pack produced by the team consisted
of over 100 documents and of more than 5000 pages. This paper aimed at summarizing this documentation,
providing a reference point for the upcoming design-to-cost exercise. We, as a team, will use all our knowledge
for X-IFU to maintain flagship capabilities in spatially resolved high resolution X-ray spectroscopy, as to enable
most of the original X-IFU related scientific objectives of the Athena mission to be retained.

                                      13. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This paper is based on the documentation assembled by the CNES project team and the Consortium partners
for the X-IFU System Requirement Review, which has started at the end of June, albeit with reduced objectives
(the review will be completed in September 2022). DB wishes to thank the CNES Project and Support teams for
continuing the preparation of the SRR data pack, during the disruptive and unfortunate events that happened
to Athena, which could have led to the termination of X-IFU. There is no doubt that their efforts will be
rewarded in the upcoming design-to-cost exercise. DB would also like to express his gratitude to the CNES
Management (Philippe Baptiste, President), Lionel Suchet (Chief Operating Officer), Caroline Laurent (Director
of orbital systems and applications), Philippe Lier (Deputy-Director of orbital systems and applications), the
French ESA SPC delegation (Olivier La Marle and Juliette Lambin) for their unfailing support to X-IFU.
This support was instrumental in preserving an X-IFU on the new Athena mission and will remain precious
in the upcoming phase of the reformulation of the mission. Special thanks to all the SPC delegations which
supported the objective of keeping a flagship X-ray observatory in the ESA Science Program. DB is also
