Figure 13. Left) Left: The various sub-assemblies of the FPA-DM during integration. At the top left the Niobium shield
is shown. The triangle in centre is one of three Kevlar cord assemblies which, together, form the suspension of the T1
stage. The hexagonal structure on the left is the partially assembled detector stage (see right figure). On the right, the
first FPA-DM completely assembled. The front-side red cap is a protective cover to avoid contamination of the optical
filter. The three front black covers will be replaced by the readout harness during further tests. The black back-side cover
protects the sensitive electronics and internal harness of the FPA during transport and handling (van Weers et al., 2022,
SPIE, submitteed and AthenaNuggets43). Right) Preliminary design concept of the T0 (50 mK) detector assembly. The
TES array is mounted at the top of the structure and wire-bounded to an interconnect chip. Each carrier/interconnect
chip holds 4 MUX SQUID chips with Indium bump-bonds realizing the required high-density, low-impedance contacts
between the carrier and MUX SQUID chips. As a baseline, the Nb flex harness from the FPA’s T2 stage will be glued to
a rigid support that is mounted below the Carrier chip, allowing wire-bonding directly from the Nb flex harness to the
carrier chip.


   • the magnetic and electric field shielding from the environment,
   • optical filtering of low-energy out-of-band photons from both sky and on-board metrology sources,
   • the cryo-AC detector.

2.5.2 The hybrid cooler
The hybrid cooler implements the following thermal functions:

   • To provide and control cooling power at a T0 thermal interface (50 mK range): this function provides
     cooling power to the detector stage of the FPA,
   • To provide cooling power at a T1 thermal interface (300 mK range): this function provides cooling power
     to the T1 stage of the FPA (intercept of heat loads from T2 stage to T0 stage),
   • To reject heat at T2 (1.9 K range) and T3 (4.9 K range): this function allows for the evacuation of the
     heat generated by the sub-Kelvin cooling on the two heat sinks provided by the upper cooling chain.

The Hybrid cooler55, 56 combines 1) a 3 He sorption cooler, providing the cooling power at T1 (300 mK range),
and 2) an Adiabatic Demagnetization Refrigerator (ADR), providing the cooling power at T0 (50 mK range).
The total cooling power is ∼ 1µW and ∼ 15 − 20µW at 50 and 300 mK, respectively (see Figure 14), provid-
ing significant margins with respect to the currently estimated FPA dissipation (of order 500 nW and 6-7µW
respectively).
   The sorption stage features:

   • a sorption pump,
   • an evaporator, into which liquid 3 He is condensed and then pumped down, with a thermal link to the
     objects to be cooled: the ADR stage of the cooler, and the T1 stage (∼ 300 mK) of the FPA,
