       Observation type                       Astrophysical flux             Count rate at         Resolution &
                                                                           X-IFU TES array         (Throughput)
       Defocused point source                     1 mCrab                        62 cps           2.5 eV (> 80%)
       Defocused point source (G)                10 mCrab                       620 cps           2.5 eV (> 80%)
       Brightest point source                      1 Crab                  8.2 kcps (Be filt)     10 eV (> 50%)
       Focused point source                     0.25 mCrab                      15.5 cps          2.5 eV (> 80%)
       Extended source                       Perseus inner 1’x1’            0.44 cps/pixel        2.5 eV (> 80%)
       Extended source (G)                   CasA average flux               2.5 cps/pixel        2.5 eV (> 80%)
Table 6. This table lists the observation type (focused, defocused, point or extended source, G refers to the Goal), the
astrophysical flux, the count rate at the X-IFU entrance, the X-IFU at the TES array, i.e. after passing through the
filter wheel filter, and finally the requirement in terms of spectral resolution (in eV) and throughput (%). The defocusing
depth assumed is 35 mm, see Kammoun et al.,76 for more details, including a method to analyze bright source defocused
observations. For the requirements, the count rates are estimated assuming a Crab like spectrum for point source and
a thermal APEC 4 keV absorbed APEC model for extended source. The reference telescope design used in this table
is: ATHENA - Telescope Reference Design and Effective Area Estimates, ESA-ATHENA-ESTEC-PL-DD- 001, Issue 3.3,
21/12/2020. Note that the requirement of 10 eV resolution with a 50% throughput applies to the 5 to 8 keV band, and
is met assuming a 100 µm thick beryllium filter cutting off most of the photons below 2-3 keV.


   • The instrument efficiency as described above,
   • The pixel pitch which drives the event spread of the sources onto different neighbouring pixels: smaller
     pixels would each receive lower count rates and better share the overall count rate load,
   • The pixel speed. At high count rates, the current pulses used for the energy reconstruction of the impacting
     X-rays will get packed together in the pixels timelines, leading to two main degradations of the instrument
     performance. For each event, if the preceding pulse is too close, the energy reconstruction will be biased
     (by an amount depending on the time separation) and the event will need to be rejected from the science
     data. Such events are called secondaries. A nearby subsequent pulse will in turn shorten the amount
     of data available for the reconstruction and degrade the energy resolution. To characterize these effects,
     different grades can be defined as shown in Table 7.
   • Another main limitation to the instrument count rate capability is crosstalk between pixels. Crosstalk can
     be defined as any science signal, originating from the absorption of energy on one pixel, contributing to
     an energy measurement on another pixel. It may arise via various mechanisms: 1) thermal leakage on the
     detector array, 2) next-in time crosstalk related to the imperfect settling of the TDM switch at the end
     of a row period, and 3) inductive coupling due to the finite mutual inductance between elements of the
     readout chain.
   • Event Processor (EP) performance. Due to limited on board computing power and memory, the X-IFU
     EP will have a maximal event processing rate. However, together with the processing of the MXS events,
     the EP is being designed for a maximum processing rate of ∼20 kcps, in order not to introduce further
     throughput losses.

    Figure 22 shows the expected instrument throughput performance as a function of count rate/flux for the
different observation types specified in the X-IFU count rate requirements, and relying on the defocusing ca-
pability of the Athena telescope (see Figure 22 to visualize how the point spread function of the optics varies
with energy at an out-of-focus distance of 35 mm,76 ). These results were obtained using detailed End-to-End
simulations performed in the SIXTE environment,78 taking into account all the above-mentioned processes.77
As can be seen, a significant margin exists with respect to all performance requirements, and almost all goals are
met. The only exception is the extended source goal by a few percentage points. This actually shows that the
X-IFU instrument is not being oversized. This study notably serves as an input to key subsystem performance
requirements, in particular those related to pixel speed constraints and crosstalk level.

4.4.2 Undetected pileup
Pileup originates at high count rates when events are too close to one another in a pixel timeline, such that the
triggering stage of the event processor will only detect one event. Phase A studies showed via simulations of the
