  Counts/s/cm2/keV




                                Energy (keV)                                           Energy (keV)

Figure 23. Total background level (GCR protons, α particles and electrons) of 4.6 ± 0.07 × 10−3 counts cm−2 s−1 keV−1 ,
(no margin included), at a resolution of 1 keV on the left and 10 eV on the right. These 100 ks simulations were performed
on the Kapton/Au passive shielding configuration, with the 0.25 mm clearance from the detector surface. Note that the
gold fluorescence peak at 9.7 keV is clearly visible.


on worst case assumptions for the L1 environment (solar minimum), such that much lower background periods
can be expected along the mission lifetime.

4.6 Targets of Opportunity (ToO)
Concerning ToO, X-IFU has to fulfill two scientific requirements stated as :

         • X-IFU shall be able to deliver 50 high-resolution X-ray spectra of GRB afterglows with at least 1 million
           counts over its nominal mission lifetime.
         • X-IFU shall be able to perform observations of a ToO in four hours wrt. ToO alert with at least 50 ks
           (TBC) available exposure for 40% (TBC) of the events (assuming a 50% Field-of-Regard, FoR)

The X-IFU, with its cooling cycle, plays a key role in the ToO response capability, as a successful observation is
only possible if sufficient cold time is available at the appropriate time. Of course, in the end, the corresponding
performance depends on the full Athena system. The main instrument contributors are: 1) The cold time (a
significant fraction of “successful” ToO are observed without recycling the instrument), 2) The duty cycle (ratio
between the cold time and the sum of the cold time and regeneration time), and 3) The duration of a detector
set-up, including possible calibrations required to get the right performance at the beginning of the observation.
   To optimize the instrument fast response, different recycling schemes have been investigated via extensive
Monte Carlo simulations, accounting for a full modeling of the Athena system and its mock observing plan.79
The best strategy (so called “partial heat-up”) uses the capability of the sub-Kelvin cooler to anticipate the early
phase of the recycling (heat-up) and wait for a variable time (standby), before finishing the recycling and cooling
down. The reference tuning of the cooler is a regeneration time of 8h50, a cold time = 28h30, corresponding to
a duty cycle = 76.3 % (note that a conservative 30 minutes of cold time is reserved prior to any observation to
properly set up the instrument).
    A sensitivity analysis of the ToO requirement with respect to the hybrid cooler performance parameters (cold
and regeneration times) was also performed. This showed that the requirement expressed as 4 h delay / 50 ksec
of observing time for 80% of accessible ToO (FOR = 50%) is never met for all cases of tuning. Instead a 8 h
delay / 50 ksec is achievable for the “reference tuning” of the cooler. For the requirement expressed in terms
of number of photons collected and number of successful ToO over the mission lifetime, this objective is always
met with significant margins for all tuning of the X-IFU cooler. For the reference tuning, X-IFU could record up
to ∼ 25 one million count GRB afterglow spectra per year, indicating a factor of 2 margin in performance. The
