                                                 ABSTRACT
The Athena X-ray Integral Unit (X-IFU) is the high resolution X-ray spectrometer studied since 2015 for flying
in the mid-30s on the Athena space X-ray Observatory. Athena is a versatile observatory designed to address
the Hot and Energetic Universe science theme, as selected in November 2013 by the Survey Science Committee.
Based on a large format array of Transition Edge Sensors (TES), X-IFU aims to provide spatially resolved
X-ray spectroscopy, with a spectral resolution of 2.5 eV (up to 7 keV) over an hexagonal field of view of 5
arc minutes (equivalent diameter). The X-IFU entered its System Requirement Review (SRR) in June 2022,
at about the same time when ESA called for an overall X-IFU redesign (including the X-IFU cryostat and the
cooling chain), due to an unanticipated cost overrun of Athena. In this paper, after illustrating the breakthrough
capabilities of the X-IFU, we describe the instrument as presented at its SRR (i.e. in the course of its preliminary
definition phase, so-called B1), browsing through all the subsystems and associated requirements. We then show
the instrument budgets, with a particular emphasis on the anticipated budgets of some of its key performance
parameters, such as the instrument efficiency, spectral resolution, energy scale knowledge, count rate capability,
non X-ray background and target of opportunity efficiency. Finally, we briefly discuss the ongoing key technology
demonstration activities, the calibration and the activities foreseen in the X-IFU Instrument Science Center,
touch on communication and outreach activities, the consortium organisation and the life cycle assessment of
X-IFU aiming at minimising the environmental footprint, associated with the development of the instrument.
Thanks to the studies conducted so far on X-IFU, it is expected that along the design-to-cost exercise requested
by ESA, the X-IFU will maintain flagship capabilities in spatially resolved high resolution X-ray spectroscopy,
enabling most of the original X-IFU related scientific objectives of the Athena mission to be retained.
The X-IFU will be provided by an international consortium led by France, The Netherlands and Italy, with ESA
member state contributions from Belgium, Czech Republic, Finland, Germany, Poland, Spain, Switzerland, with
additional contributions from the United States and Japan.
Keywords: Athena: The Advanced Telescope for High Energy Astrophysics, X-IFU: The X-ray Integral Field
Unit. Space instrumentation. X-rays. Observatory.
