2.1 The Transition Edge Sensor (TES) Array
TESs are superconducting thin film thermistors operated in the sharp transition region between the super-
conducting and normal states. The X-IFU TESs consist of a 50 µm-square Mo/Au bilayer voltage biased at
a superconducting-to-normal transition temperature of ∼ 90 mK. The TES is deposited atop a 0.5 µm-thick
silicon-nitride membrane, which forms a weak       Figure   7: the
                                                      thermal        micro
                                                                link to    calorimeter
                                                                        the heat            concept
                                                                                   sink. TESs    are coupled to an electro-
plated Au/Bi/Au absorber, which provides the X-ray stopping power. Its composition (Bi to Au ratio) is chosen
      The the
to provide      desired
            TES is   a pixel
                       thermal heat  capacity
                                 sensor        (optimized
                                            providing    an for energy resolution
                                                            extreme     sensitivity,and   dynamic
                                                                                      thanks        range),
                                                                                                to its sharpwhile simultane-
                                                                                                              resistance    variation when
       achieving the between
ouslytransitioning    desired pixel  quantum    efficiency. This   optimization  has  a limit, as a  minimal layer
                                  the superconducting state and the ormal state. The bias current provided by the   of gold is
required  for intra-pixel
      readout             heatallows
                electronics     diffusion.  A small
                                        to keep    thegold
                                                        TEScapinisbetween     on top
                                                                   deposited the      of the absorber to
                                                                                  superconducting       andoptimize  infrared
                                                                                                             the normal     states, thanks
reflectivity and  protect  the  porous   bismuth   from   humidity.   For the  baseline   317  µm  pitch
      the heat dissipated in the TES by the Joules effect resulting from the bias current and the non    pixels,  a target  of zero
∼ 91% intrinsic stopping power at 7 keV is achieved with a total gold thickness of 1.09 µm (of which 40 nm
      resistance of the TES. Of course, such a device needs to be operated at very cold temperatures (below
are used for the capping) and bismuth thickness of 5.51 µm. The spacing between the pixels further introduces
      100mK).
a flat multiplicative factor in the instrument efficiency. State of the art fabrication processes allow reaching an
average gap of 6.34 µm, leading to a 96 % filling factor.



                                                                                     120
                                                                                    RN                                       Normal

                                                                                     100

                                                                                         80


                                                                             RTES (m≠)
        X-ray                                                                                                  Transition
                                                                                         60
                               Appl. Sci. 2021, 11, 3793                                                                                            29 of 43
                                                                                         40

                                                                                         20                                  Biasing
                                                     and Au shielding in the proximity           of the array. On top of that, the energy resolution of
                                                                                              Superconducting
                                                     the detectors can be0 affected by thermal bath fluctuations from the energy deposited on
                                                     the substrate by cosmic  0   rays 20
                                                                                        from   astrophysical
                                                                                                  40          60 sources  [164,165]
                                                                                                                       80 TC    100 and by120 micro-vibrations
                                                                                                           T (mK)
                                                     induced by the mechanical coolers [162,166]. A proper coating and thermalization of the
                                                     TES array wafer can minimize the impact of the cosmic ray [167], while a sophisticated
Figure 6. Left) The schematic of a TES. Right) TheKevlar-based
                                                      resistance variation
                                                                      suspensionas a      function
                                                                                     system is  in     of  the to
                                                                                                    development   temperature,      showingand
                                                                                                                        provide robustness      a sharp
                                                                                                                                                   stiffness to
                                                                                           26
rise in the transition region between the superconducting     andlaunch
                                                     survive the      normal andstates.
                                                                                   sufficient thermal and mechanical decoupling from the different
                                                     cryostat stages [162]. Finally, the X-IFU TES array sensitivity will be degraded by the
    The Figure     8: On
          absorption       the
                       of an   left:inthe
                             X-ray      theread-out concept
                                                     leads to aof
                                            absorber particles          the which is
                                                               background       microcalorimeter.
                                                                      temperature          induced
                                                                                           increase  byof     theOn
                                                                                                         primary        the of
                                                                                                                     protons  right:
                                                                                                                    TES/absorber       the
                                                                                                                                 both solar    TES
                                                                                                                                              and
                                                                                                                                          couple       resistance as a
                                                                                                                                                     and rays
                                                                                                                                                  cosmic
                                                     origin, and    secondary
                                                               function of bias  electrons.   To
                                                                                     temperature prevent    that,  a Cryogenic   AntiCoincidence     (CryoAC)
thus of the TES resistance (see Figure 6). Underdetector
                                                       an (almost)
                                                               is placedconstant
                                                                           in the proximity of  voltage,
                                                                                                   the X-IFUthe  TEScurrent     going
                                                                                                                      array [168].      through
                                                                                                                                   The CryoAC     is athe
                                                                                                                                                       4-pixels
TES then shows a sharp decrease. Overall, eachdetector X-raymade photonof wide area silicon absorbers sensed by a network of about 120(and
                                                                              will   create    a  current       pulse,   whose     amplitude        IrAu TESs
shape) depends on its energy. It is reconstructed on connected
                                                           board  in to
                                                                     parallel.  It is a
                                                                          provide     located  at a distance of
                                                                                          precise    measurement   <1 mm of the
                                                                                                                            underneath   the TES-array.
                                                                                                                                     photon     energyA set
and arrival time. The combination of the TES/absorberof low-Z material    shields in between
                                                                   heat capacity,                 the TES array
                                                                                          the thermal                and the Niobium
                                                                                                               conductance        to theshield
                                                                                                                                            coldwill minimize
                                                                                                                                                  bath,
                                                     the effect of secondaries. In this configuration, the X-IFU particle background will be
and the electrical properties of the TES circuit, reduced
                                                      including      the detector
                                                               to a total   level <5·10 3 setpoint,      defineinthe
                                                                                              cts/cm2 /s/keV          the temporal     shape
                                                                                                                           2–10 keV energy        of the
                                                                                                                                               band.  The first
pulse. These are optimized to match the X-IFU 0.2           to 12 keV
                                                     simultaneous             operating
                                                                      operation of            range
                                                                                       a CryoAC         and allow
                                                                                                    prototype            a at INAF,
                                                                                                                  developed  multiplexedwith areadout
                                                                                                                                                 NASA-GSFC
with minimal resolution degradation (see 2.2).30,      31 kilo-pixel array read-out in single pixel mode by a MHz-FDM set-up developed at
                                                     TES
                                                     SRON has been recently reported by Macculi et al. [169].




Figure 7. Left) Top-down viewFigure     (a) X-IFU Center)
                                    13. design.
                              of pixel            Focal PlaneCross-section
                                                              Assembly Demonstration
                                                                               cartoonModel.
                                                                                         view of(b) pixel
                                                                                                     Photograph  of a Right)
                                                                                                            layout.   X-IFU prototype array from
                                                                                                                              Photograph       of
                             NASA-GSFC with more than 3000 pixels on a pitch of 260 µm. Courtesy of the X-IFU FPA team at SRON and NASA-GSFC.
a X-IFU prototype hexagonal detector    with more than 3000 pixels.
                       This document belongs to CNES. Its information cannot be distributed, published or reproduced without a CNES agreement
                                                         6.2. Other Future X-ray Space Missions
                                                                  After the European mission Athena, other X-ray observatories are currently being
                                                             proposed in China, Japan, and USA.
                                                                  The Hot Universe Baryon Surveyor (HUBS) [170], proposed in China, is designed
                                                             to explore and characterize the circumgalactic medium with a large FoV. HUBS will be
                                                             complementary to Athena. Thanks to the larger FoV (10 angular resolution pixels over a
                                                             1 deg2 FoV, while X-IFU has ⇠500 pixels over a FoV of 50 equivalent diameter), it is optimized
                                                             to measure the spatial profile of extended warm-hot gas around galaxies and clusters of
                                                             galaxies, and, potentially, the filamentary structures in the cosmic web, as well. The array
