  Issue date




               Engineering Model (EM) test campaign                     Proto Flight Model (PFM) test campaign




Figure 24. Top panel) The main instrument/mission development phases. Mid panel) The main instrument test campaigns.
Cryostat XIII refers to the on-going DCS development. Bottom panels) On the left the engineering model test campaign
and on the right the proto-flight model test campaign.


    At the time of the SRR preparation, the assumption for the launch date of Athena was the end of 2035 and
the adoption of the mission in June 2023. The development schedule of X-IFU, including the early verification
phase, as iterated with ESA is presented in Figure 24. Although this schedule is now obsolete, it is worth noting
that the X-IFU engineering model delivery to industry was planned for September 2027, while the delivery of
the flight model was planned by August 2030 (meaning about 3 years were needed to move from one model
to the next). The models would have then been integrated in the cryostat at the Prime premises and coupled
tests performed, including calibration activities. Note that these coupled activities at the Prime facilities are
costly and will be part of the items to discuss as part of the upcoming design to cost exercise. The relatively
long leap time separating the X-IFU model delivery dates and the launch date will also have to be looked at for
optimizations.

                                                      6. CALIBRATION
X-IFU being a sensitive high resolution spectrometer, special care is required for its calibration both on the
ground and in-flight.83, 84 The X-IFU calibration strategy combines measurements and analysis:

   • At component level (detector array, filters, readout electronics, ...),
   • At sub-system level (Focal Plane Assembly, detection chain, . . . ),
   • At instrument level (integrated in the GSE cryostat, on the Science Instrument Module, during Thermal
     Vacuum/Thermal Balance of the SIM and/or the spacecraft which should be the last opportunity to have
     a cold instrument before launch),
   • In-flight on internal sources or specific X-IFU configuration (ie on MXS, with filter wheel in closed position,
     specific acquisition mode during the calibration performance verification phase,...),
