    2- Transparency to the x-ray photons generated by the instrument’s calibration source
    3- Temperature interfaces
    4- Thermal loads onto colder stages (conductive and radiative)   The stack is made of 5 thermal filters, each of which is made of:
                                                                            • A thin aluminized polyimide foil (a few tens of nm thick)
                                                                            •     A supporting mesh insuring the adequate strength
Figure 2 below shows a schematic diagram of the THF stack with specified distance from the focal plane (z),
clear aperture diameter (D). Filters are named by the approximate temperature     A two
                                                                            • of the     parts
                                                                                     shield they(inner and outer) supporting frame, enabling the mounting of the filters in th
                                                                                                 are mounted
on.                                                                               structures, namely, the Aperture cylinder and the Focal Plane Assembly (FPA)




        Figure 15. Left) The stack of thermal filters located           Figure  3: THF300
                                                                            in the   X-IFUschematic    mounting
                                                                                              field of view.      of thefilters
                                                                                                                Three     film and supporting
                                                                                                                                have          mesh
                                                                                                                                      interfaces   inside
                                                                                                                                                 with  thethe two-parts type
                                                                        outer frame, 2 is the inner frame, 3 is the supporting mesh and 4 is the thin polyimide/Al foil.
        cryostat through the aperture cylinder, and 2 filters (the coldest) are located in the FPA. Right) THF300 schematic
        mountingFigure  2: the thermal filters in the field of view of the detector (z=0)
                   of the  film and supporting mesh inside the two-parts type frame. ○                  1 is the outer frame, ○     2 is the inner frame,
        ○3 is the supporting mesh and ○        4 is the thin polyimide/Al foil.
The stack is made of 5 thermal filters, each of which is made of:
   • A thin aluminized polyimide foil (a few tens of nm thick)         This document belongs to CNES. Its information cannot be distributed, published or reproduced without a CNES agree
   • A supporting    mesh insuring
            The Hybrid      Cooler   thewill
                                         adequate  strength
                                              provide     a minimum cold time of 28.5 hours, while the total recycling time should not
   • A two parts (inner and outer) supporting frame, enabling the mounting of the filters in their hosting
       exceed    8 namely,
        structures, hours the
                            and     50 cylinder
                               Aperture  minutes.andAthe Focal
                                                         partialPlane
                                                                  regeneration    of the cooler is also possible.
                                                                      Assembly (FPA)
           The CMA is controlled by 2 independent warm electronics, operated in cold redundancy, that enable the
        control of the cooler (e.g., cold tips temperature regulation, regeneration) as well as any telemetry needed to
        operate the cooler.

        2.6 The thermal filters
        The thermal filter (THF) stack is a set of 5 filters accommodated in the field of view of the X-IFU.57–65 The
        functions implemented by the thermal filters are:

            • To protect the detector from photons shot noise and thermal radiations,
            • Toschematic
Figure 3: THF300     ensure mounting
                                the EMC   of thetightness    of themesh
                                                 film and supporting  2K inside
                                                                            Faraday      cage,type frame. 1 is the
                                                                                  the two-parts
            • To ensure the EMC tightness of the 300K Faraday cage.
outer frame, 2 is the inner frame, 3 is the supporting mesh and 4 is the thin polyimide/Al foil.



        These functions have to comply to the following set of constraints: 1) transparency to X-rays, 2) temperature
        interfaces set by the cryostat and the FPA, 3) thermal loads onto colder stages, 4) mechanical loads from launch
This document belongs to CNES. Its information cannot be distributed, published or reproduced without a CNES agreement

        vibrations, 5) differential pressure during instrument pumping, 6) Thermal conductivity across the filter opening.
        Figure 15 shows a schematic diagram of the THF stack with specified distances from the focal plane (Z, in mm),
        clear aperture diameter (D, in mm). Filters are named by the approximate temperature of the shield they are
        mounted on.
           In its current design, each filter is composed of 30 nm of Aluminum (of which 7 nm are considered to be
        oxidized to Al2 O3 ) and 45 nm of polyimide. The meshes of all filters were optimized for a blocking factor between
        2 and 2.5%, the colder (and thus smaller) filters having a poorer transmission due to the minimal thickness of
        the mesh wires. This leads to a total loss of ∼ 10.7%.

        2.7 The Aperture Cylinder (ApC)
        The Aperture Cylinder (ApC), together with the stack of thermal filters, forms a feed-through assembly that
        allows X-rays to reach the TES array, with minimal absorption in the useful energy range 0.2–12 keV (see Figure
        16). The ApC contributes to, or ensures, the following functions of the X-IFU:

              • To ensure the EMC tightness of the 300K Faraday cage,
              • To mechanically support the filters,
              • To ensure the thermalization of the filters with respect to the cryostat interface temperature,
              • To protect the detector from photons shot noise and thermal radiations,
