To achieve the temperatures required by the mission, the X-IFU Hybrid cooler is based   on
                                                                                    Page : 24/72a solution that

combines (see figure below):
•       A 3He sorption cooler, providing the cooling power at T1 (300 mK range),
•       An Adiabatic Demagnetization Refrigerator (ADR), providing the cooling power at T0 (50 mK range).




                                                                                                                                           Figure 6 – Principle of operation of a Sorption cooler
                                                                                                                                                            (extract from [RD-7])

                                                                                                                The ADR stage is based on magnetic cooling, which principle is based on the entropy reduction of the
                                                                                       Ref.: XIFU-RD-11410-00790-CNES
                                                                                                         disordered spins of paramagnetic material:
                                                                                       Issue: 1.0                   -    when submitted to a magnetic field, the spins in the paramagnetic material tend to align along the field
                                                                                                                         direction; the order in the material increases, thus the entropy decreases, and the material releases
                                                                                       Date: 16/05/2022
                          ATHENA                                                       Page : 24/72                 -
                                                                                                                         heat toward a heat sink;
                                                                                                                         when the magnetic field is gradually reduced and turned off, the spins turn back to their random
                                                                                                                         orientation, which needs some energy; if the material is thermally isolated, this energy is drawn from
                                                                                                                         the thermal agitation, which cools the material in an adiabatic process.



                                                                               Figure 5 – Schematic of HybCMA
                                                                                      (extract from [RD-8])

The sorption stage features:
        -     a sorption pump,
        -     an evaporator, into which liquid Helium 3 is condensed and then pumped down, with a thermal link to
              the objects to be cooled: the ADR stage of the cooler, and the T1 stage (~300 mK) of the FPA,
       - a pumping line, between the pump and the evaporator,
       - thermal            links toward heat sinks at T2 (1.9K) and T3 (4.9 K),
                         Figure 6 – Principle of operation of a Sorption cooler
                                                                                                                                       provided
                                                                                                                                Figure 7 –   Principle of by  operationthe       upper cryochain (SIM
                                                                                                                                                                            of an ADR
                                                                                                                                              (extract from [RD-7])
        Figure      14. Top) The (extract
              Cryostat)                 schematic from of   the Hybrid cooler mechanical assembly. Bottom
                                                       [RD-7])                                                                                     left) The working principle of the
        sorption stage. Bottom right) The working principle of an                             Adiabatic           Demagnetization                     Refrigerator               (ADR).
The ADR- stagetwo     gason gap
                 is based    magneticheat
                                        cooling,                 is based and
                                                 which principle(HS1
                                              switches                    on the HS2),      allowing
                                                                                          Thus, like
                                                                                          recycling of
                                                                                 entropy reduction       the to thermally connect or disconnect respectively
                                                                                                      the Sorption stage, the
                                                                                                    phase.
                                                                                                                                    ADR stage has a cyclic            operation, with   a cooling phase followed by a

              the
disordered spins     sorptionmaterial:
                 of paramagnetic    pump to the T3 interface, and the                            evaporator cold end to the T2 interface.
                                                                                          This document belongs to CNES. Its information cannot be distributed, published or reproduced without a CNES agreement
    -    when submitted to a magnetic field, the spins in the paramagnetic material tend to align along the field
                • a pumping line, between the pump and the evaporator,
         direction; the order in the material increases, thus the entropy decreases, and the material releases
This heat
      system          is a
           toward a heat
            • thermal     sink;one-shot system and needs to be recycled once all the liquid helium has been exhausted.
                               links toward heat sinks at T2 (1.9K) and T3 (4.9 K), provided by the upper cryochain,
During     the    recycling         phase,         the sorption            pump         first isis drawn
                                                                                                   heated to desorb (exhaust) most of the helium gas and
   - when the magnetic field is gradually reduced and turned off, the spins turn back to their random
            •
     orientation,
               twowhichgas
                         needsgapsome heat
                                      energy; switches
                                              if the material is thermally
                                                              (HS1      andisolated, this energy
                                                                                 HS2),      allowing fromto thermally connect or disconnect respectively the
allow goodsorption
     the thermal   condensation
                  agitation, which cools the  efficiency. Then once the liquid has been condensed, the sorption pump is cooled
                                             material in an adiabatic process.
                                pump to the T3 interface, and the evaporator cold end to the T2 interface.
back down to ensure the pumping effect and lower the saturated vapor pressure of the liquid helium bath.
          This system is a one-shot system and needs to be recycled once all the liquid helium has been exhausted.
          During the recycling phase, the sorption pump first is heated to exhaust most of the helium gas and allows good
          condensation efficiency. Then once the liquid has been condensed, the sorption pump is cooled back down to
          ensure the pumping effect and lower the saturated vapor pressure of the liquid helium bath.
              The ADR stage is based on magnetic cooling, which principle is based on the entropy reduction of the
          disordered spins of paramagnetic material: 1) when submitted to a magnetic field, the spins in the paramagnetic
          material tend to align along the field direction; the order in the material increases, thus the entropy decreases,
          and the material releases heat toward a heat sink; 2) when the magnetic field is gradually reduced and turned
          off, the spins turn back to their random orientation, which requires energy; if the material is thermally isolated,
          this energy is drawn from the thermal agitation, which cools the material in an adiabatic process. Thus, like the
          sorption stage,Figure
                           the7 –
                                ADR      stage
                                  Principle of     has aof an
                                               operation   cyclic
                                                              ADR operation, with a cooling phase followed by a recycling phase. The
                                   (extract from [RD-7])
          ADR stage is composed of:
Thus, like the Sorption stage, the ADR stage has a cyclic operation, with a cooling phase followed by a
recycling phase.
                • a cryogenic superconductor coil,
                • a paramagnetic salt pill accommodated inside of the coil,
This document belongs to CNES. Its information cannot be distributed, published or reproduced without a CNES agreement


                • a thermal link to the object to be cooled: the T0 stage (∼ 50 mK) of the FPA (detector stage),
                • a third heat switch (HS3), allowing to thermally connect the salt pill to the cold end of the sorption stage
                  evaporator during the recycling phase, to thermally disconnect the salt pill from the rest of the cooler
                  during the cooling phase.
This document belongs to CNES. Its information cannot be distributed, published or reproduced without a CNES agreement
