                                                                   ATHENA                                            Page : 28/107




                        The switching from one pixel to the other that results from the multiplexing generates high frequency transient
                        signals along the detection chain that can propagate within one column and from one chain to its neighbors
                        through parasitic coupling mechanisms. To minimize the impact of possible interferences, a synchronization is
                        implemented so that the switching occurs at the very same time for the 72 chains, and the sampling of the
                        signal can be done in a steady time window where no switching occurs. This synchronization is based on the
                        distribution by the Instrument Control Unit (ICU) of 2 clocks to the 6 DRE (where the row addressing driving
                        the switching is implemented), one at the frame frequency (183.8 kHz) and one at 62.5 MHz. The DRE FPGA
                        master clock is derived
                                           Réf.: from the latter.
                                                 XIFU-DD-10000-00816-CNES
THENA                     The DRE also Issue
                                         implement
                                                : 1.0 an adjustable delay (several steps of 8 ns), that allows to correct static delays that
                        may result from differences  in harnesses length or electronics.
                                          Date : 2022/06/03
                                     Page : 34/198
                        2.5 The 2K Core
                   The 2K Core consists of the Focal Plane Assembly (FPA) and the hybrid cooler cold mechanical assembly
                   (CMA). It is placed inside the cryostat (see Figure 12). The so-called 2K Frame provides mechanical support to
                   the FPA and CMA, and the thermal and mechanical interfaces with the cryostat. The 2K Frame provides also
array and anti-coincidence)  and the hybrid
                   EMC tightness       to thecooler
                                                 FPA,need to beharness
                                                        some    operatedrouting, Figure
                                                                           at very   e.g. 5for
                                                                                            – 2K
                                                                                               theCore
                                                                                                   cryo-AC signals, as well as thermal sensors and
etection concept, in a cryostat which is not Left:
                                             in the Envelope
                                                    perimeter ofCAD    model
                                                                 the instrument.of the  assembly   – Right: 2K Core exploded view
                   heaters.
ocal Plane Assembly (detectors + the cold electronics), and the cooler
embled to make the so called 2K core, which is the cold assembly that will be




er mechanical assembly (CMA).
                Figure 12.    On the
                           Left) Theright,
                                      FocalthePlane
                                              Focal Plane Assembly
                                                    Assembly       (FPA)layout, without FPA 2K baffle but with electrical interfaces with
                                                              external
                        FPA Cold harnesses. Center) Hybrid Cooler Mechanical Assembly. Right) The 2K Frame
g the 2K core are the Focal Plane Assembly (FPA), andFigure
                                                        the 6  – cooler
                                                            hybrid Details of elements composing the 2K Core
                                                                         cold
                         Left: the
A third one is needed to make   FPA  external
                                   2K core:     layout,
                                            the 2K frame.without FPA 2K baffle, and with electrical interfaces with FPA Cold harnesses
                                                     Center: Hybrid Cooler Mechanical Assembly
                        2.5.1 Focal Plane Assembly (FPA)           Right: 2K Frame
                        The FPA54 hosts the two cryogenic detectors (prime micro-calorimeter array and cryo-AC) and their cold readout
                        electronics, further providing the thermal isolation and electromagnetic shielding required to operate the sensor
                        array at ∼ 50 mK within the environment of the 2K Core, located inside the instrument cryostat. An exploded
                        view of the FPA is shown in Figure 13 (see van Weers, 2022, SPIE, submitted).
                              The FPA implements the following functions:

                              • the main TES detector array operated at nominal temperature T0 stage (50 mK),
                              • the cryogenic input electronics: 1) MUX SQUIDs for the main array at nominal temperature T0 stage; 2)
                                AMP SQUID at nominal temperature T2 stage (2 K),
                              This document belongs to CNES. Its information cannot be distributed, published or reproduced without a CNES agreement
                 Figure 12: the 2K frame




CNES. Its information cannot be distributed, published or reproduced without a CNES agreement
