Figure 8. Left) Illustration of the feedback loop used to null out the magnetic field sensed by the SQUID.40 Right)
Schematic41 of 2-column × 2-row TDM. Each dc-biased TES is read out by a first stage SQUID amplifier (SQ1) via
inductive coupling (Min1 ). A row of SQ1s is turned on by applying a row address current (IRA ) to the corresponding row
address line, opening the row’s flux actuated switches. During TDM operation, rows are opened sequentially, reading out
one TES per column at a time. Each column’s SQ1 signals are passed to a SQUID series array amplifier, whose voltage
(Ver ) is read out by room temperature electronics.


2.2 The cold front end electronics
The amplification of the signal generated by the TES relies on SQUIDs (Superconducting Quantum Interference
Devices), split in two stages and referred to as MUX SQUIDs (also called SQ1) for the first stage, and as the
AMP SQUIDs (sometimes named SSA for SQUID Series Array) for the second one32, 33 respectively. SQUIDs
are extremely sensitive magnetometers, operating at cryogenic temperatures. The current flowing through the
TES is converted into a magnetic field by an input coil. To linearize the near-sinusoidal MUX SQUID response,
and increase its dynamic range, the digital readout electronics generates a current for a feedback coil to null the
magnetic field sensed by the SQUID (see Figure 8). This error signal is then read out by the AMP SQUID,
operated at 2K, to be amplified in order to increase the signal robustness against down-stream and external
noise sources. The output voltage is then delivered to the low-noise amplifier of the WFEE operated at room
temperature.
    Because resources are limited on the spacecraft, multiplexing is required and the baseline adopted for X-IFU
is Time Division Multiplexing (TDM34–36 ), see Figure 8 for a description of the TDM principles (an alternative
readout technique would be frequency domain multiplexing37–39 ). In TDM, each DC-biased TES is associated
with a MUX SQUID. Those are activated sequentially via a flux-actuated superconducting switch, so the TESs
in each readout column are measured sequentially. Every SQ1 activation is called a row and a full set of samples
of a column constitutes a readout frame. TDM columns are read out in parallel: the SQ1 of the same row
number of each column are activated synchronously. The row addressing is performed in the Digital Readout
Electronic (DRE). In order to limit the number of row address lines, two levels of switches are used: instead of
having 34 pairs of command lines to command the ON/OFF state of the MUX SQUID, a command matrix of
9x4 is implemented, thus requiring only 13 pairs.
    In its present configuration, the total number of pixels of the detector array of X-IFU is 2376, divided in
6 groups of 396 pixels each. Each group of 396 pixels is read out by independent electronics, so that a failure
would not lead to a loss larger than one sixth of the whole detector. One group of 396 pixels is thus made of 12
columns of 33(+1) pixels (33 rows with sensitive pixels × 12 columns = 396 pixels, plus one ”dark row” with a
pure resistor attached, that monitors the drift in the gain of the readout electronics).
