                                First TES array &
                                CryoAC joint test
TES array &
AC joint test

                                                                                                                       CryoAC
                                                                                                                        CFEE
                                                                                                                                      TES-Array D
                                                            TES-Array DM                       CryoAC DM
                                         40pix B setup
                                                                              LC Filters for
                                                                              FDM readout
                                                                                                           40pix B setup

                Figure 9. Left) Working principle of the cryo-AC. Right) The cryo-AC demonstration model and its cold front end
                electronics as used for the coupled test with prime micro-calorimeter array.47
incidence Capability Demonstration with CryoAC + 19 TES array pixels (MUX mode)
n 10 days collected 286 cryogenic
              2.3 The
                              Anticoincidence
                        coincidenceanti-coincidence
                                   events            Capability
                                          → 1.6 cts/cm 2/min        Demonstration
                                                             (as expected
                                                     (cryo-AC)    detectorforand
                                                                              cosmic muons)with
                                                                                 associated
                                                                                                CryoAC + 19 TES arra
                                                                                            electronics
 andau shape in the spectra
                         will→be
                               Energy  depositions consistent with the expectations    forprime
                                                                                           MIPs TES array and depositing
             Background                   • In 10 days collected 286 coincidence events → 1.6 cts/cm2/min
                                 generated by primary and secondary particles hitting the
               energy in the science energy range of the X-IFU. A second cryogenic detector is accommodated just underneath
               the prime array (at a distance less than 1 mm, see Figure 9), so that events depositing energies both in the micro-
                                          • Landau shape in the spectra → Energy depositions consistent w
               calorimeter array and the cryo-AC can be flagged out, and removed from the count stream from the observed
               source (see42 for a recent review of the particle background of the X-IFU). The cryo-AC is made of Si-suspended
               absorbers sensed by a network of IrAu TES43–46 (the first demonstration of the joint operation of the main TES
               array, and the cryo-AC is presented here47 ). Time coincident multiple events (generated primarily by secondary
               particles generated in the metallic parts close to the detector) can also be flagged out, although not necessarily
               having a time coincident event in the cryo-AC. The cryo-AC detector is segmented in four quadrants, each
               associated with its own readout electronics (cryo-AC Warm Front End Electronics, cryo-AC-WFEE and Warm
               Back End Electronics cryo-AC- WBEE43, 44 ). The cryo-AC WFEE is divided in 4 quadrants, each one providing
               bias to TES and SQUID for a single pixel and producing the analog scientific signal and housekeeping. The
nificant crosstalk / magnetic
               cryo-AC   WBEEcoupling       observed
                                 performs the    digitalbetween
                                                           processing,thedetecting,
                                                                           detectors*  and time stamping cosmic ray events by applying a
               proper trigger logic algorithm (Chiarello et al., 2022, SPIE, submitted), and generating the associated telemetry.
 formance degradation
               The WBEE   observed
                            function on    TES array side
                                       is implemented        (Analysis
                                                          in two identicalof ∆EFWHM
                                                                              independent@ 6 units
                                                                                             keV on  9 pixels)
                                                                                                   operated in cold redundancy. Both units
               can operate the 4 anti-coincidence detection chains. Failure in one readout chain would mean that approximately
                                * See Performance WG presentation (slides 10-11) for details
               one fourth of the prime array would have a higher background, though not leading to a complete loss as the
D’Andrea, 12th X-IFU   Consortium
               pointing of the        Meeting,
                               telescope            th offset
                                            could 4be  November      2020 that particular quadrant.
                                                              so to avoid

                2.4 The warm readout electronics
                               No significant crosstalk / magnetic coupling observed between the de
                Next we move to the two main components of the warm electronics of the main readout detection chain.

                2.4.1 Warm Front-End Electronics (WFEE)
                               No performance degradation observed on TES array side (Analysis of
                The first stage of the warm electronics is called the Warm Front-End Electronics (WFEE,48 see Figure 10). The
                main functions ensured by the WFEE are:
                                                                                                * See Performance WG presentation (slides 10-1
                    • To amplify the error signal provided by the cold electronics (one by column),
                                 Matteo D’Andrea, 12th X-IFU Consortium Meeting, 4th November 2020
                    • To bias the TES (one TES bias per column),
                    • To bias the 50mK and 2K SQUID,
                    • To buffer the feedback signals,
                    • To buffer the row addressing signal that controls the pixels selection.

                   As dealing with extremely sensitive signals, the WFEE must be accommodated as close as possible to the
                cryostat and share a Faraday cage with it to avoid noises generated by electromagnetic fields and common mode
