   • In “RECYCLE” mode, the cryo-cooler is recycling
   • In “SETUP” mode, the instrument gets ready for observing (the filter wheel can be activated and calibration
     sources active)
   • In “OBSERVATION” mode, the detection chain is active, the MXS are one and are running at a stable
     pulse rate and the cooling is active with regulation


           Unit                                                RECYCLE         SETUP      OBSERVATION
           Digital Readout electronics (6 identical units)       718.2          718.2         718.2
           Instrument Control Unit                                 20             20            20
           cryo-AC                                                28.8           28.8          28.8
           2K Core Controller                                      34            28.8          28.8
           Filter wheel electronics                               15.8           27.9          17.0
           Total                                                 816.8          823.7         812.8
Table 3. The electrical power budget for X-IFU in three instrument modes. The allocation for X-IFU is 1300 W, indicating
that in all sizing cases, the margin is about 60%.


3.3 Science telemetry budget
The six DRE and the cryo-AC will produce science telemetry packets that are transmitted to the platform for
storage before downlink to the ground. The DRE and CryoAC will implement output buffers and overflow
control to ensure they do not exceed the permitted on-board data-rate. Each event requires 120 bits to be fully
described. For a moderately bright X-ray source of 10 mCrab, this leads to a data rate of 75 kbits/s and a
volume of 7.5 Gbits for a 100 ks observation. The X-IFU further produces a steady rate of 18 kbits/s, as the
sum of the background bit rate, calibration bit rate, cryo-AC bit rate (1.8 Gbits for 100 ks). These volumes are
to be compared with the 26 Gbits of mass memory allocated daily to X-IFU. Larger volumes of data would still
be allowed for the observations of brighter sources, provided adapting the WFI observations to produce lower
data rate around this period.

                                  4. PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT
Next we present the latest assessment of the main X-IFU performance parameters, starting with the instrument
efficiency.

4.1 Instrument efficiency
The instrument efficiency (IE) refers to the probability of a photon arriving at the top of the aperture cylinder
in the X-IFU field of view to be detected by the instrument and incorporated in the final science data. This
includes the absorber quantum efficiency and the array geometrical filling factor (see §2.1), the transmission of
the thermal filters (see §2.6), the loss of transmission due to contamination, the loss due to dead time process,
as well as the detector yield. This excludes however dead time due to MXS-related veto processes, which rather
corresponds to calibration time, as well as the rejection of events at high count rates, which is captured in the
throughput requirements.
    Molecular contamination onto the thermal filters will lower their transmission, notably at the lowest energies.
We chose to allocate 20% (End-of-Life) of transmission loss at 0.35 keV (corresponding to a transmission loss
of 4% at 1 keV). The most likely candidate species for contamination are carbon (hydro carbonate) and oxygen
(water), which coincidentally represent the worst case species at 350 eV and 1 keV. Particulate contamination
is deemed negligible.
   The detector yield is expected to be dominated by the fraction of “dead pixels” in the sensor array (due to
various fabrication defects). Accounting for all the possible losses in the different cold connections, as well as
the MUX SQUID chip fabrication yield and possible loss via ESD events, we expect a total yield of ∼ 92%, to
be consolidated after testing all fabrication processes on large numbers of samples.
