Figure 10. Exploded view of one WFEE box with its main components highlighted: the ASIC module with the buffers,
the row addressing signal buffer module and finally the regulator module and the converter filtering board.


perturbations, and as far as possible from noisy digital electronics. The WFEE is implemented by 6 independent
units, aligned on the 6 cold electronics groups. These 6 WFEE units are grouped in 3 electronic boxes. One unit
thus corresponds to 12 readout chains.

2.4.2 Digital Readout Electronics (DRE)
The second stage of the warm detection chain is the Digital Readout Electronics (DRE49 for a description of the
DRE prototype developed for Frequency Domain Multiplexing, but sharing some commonalities with the one
being developed now for TDM readout, see Figure 11). Its main functions are to:

   • Generate the row addressing signals to select the row to be readout,
   • Sample the error signal of the pixels of the selected row,
   • Generate the feedback signal for the MUX SQUIDs,
   • Generate dynamic offset compensation signals to the SSA to account for the offset dispersion of the different
     MUX SQUIDs output voltage inside a column
   • Identify events in the pixel data flow and extract the data records (8192 samples each: the sampling
     frequency is 183.8 kHz equivalent to one sample every 5.44 µs),
   • Process the data record to estimate the arrival time, to digitize the energy of the event and determine its
     grade.50–53 The accurate energy of the photon in keV will then be obtained on-ground accounting Réf.: for the
                                                                                                                XIFU-DD-10000-00816-C
     gain scale (and other corrections).                                 ATHENA                           Issue : 1.0
   • Produce telemetry packets and send them to the spacecraft mass memory.                               Date : 2022/06/03
                                                                                                                              Page : 165/198




                                                                                         Figure 99: Physical breakdown of a DRE unit.
Figure 11. Left) Layout of a DRE unit, with the warm harnesses connecting to the WFEE. Center) The rear of a DRE
unit, showing covers to protect internal interfaces against 5.11.4. LAYOUT interferences. Right) Physical breakdown of a
                                                            electromagnetic
DRE unit, made of 3 demultiplexing (DEMUX) modules, 1       Theraw   addressing
                                                                layout of a       and
                                                                            DRE unit      synchronisation
                                                                                     is presented             (RAS) module and one
                                                                                                  on Figure 100.
module holding the event processor (EP). The DC converter is located at the bottom of the DRE Unit.
