                                                                                                                       An extraordinary cryostat to characteri

                                                                                                                  INTA-Cryostat for 2K Core                                         Extraordinary sp
                                                                                                                                                                               Athena/X-IFU will b
                                                                                                                      Calibration team                                         will be the most sens
                                                                                                                               INTA (Spain)                                    before it departs fro
                                                                                                                                                                               trolled conditions. Th
                                                                                                                                                                               lution potential.

                                                                                                                                                                                    The goal of the
                                                                                                                                                                               opment, manufactur
                                                                                                                                                                               of the FPA and its re
                                                                                                                                                                               characterization pro
                                                                                                                                                                               opportunity to verify
                                                                                                                                                                               ment module of Ath

                                                                                                                                                                                    The project is a
                                                                                                                                                                               detection chain, any
                                                                                                                                                                               blur the instrument
                                                                                                                                                                               from the external en
                                                                                                                                                                               brations. Any mecha
                                                                                                                                                                               imal temperature va
                                                                                                                                                                               to be isolated from e
                                                                                                                                                                               susceptible. Moreove
                                                                                                                                                                               calibration like: an e
                                                                                                                                                                               erate at representativ
                                                                                                                                                                               Even more, the C2C
                                                                                                                                                                               operations, from init
                                                                                                                                                                               same stable conditio

                                                                                                                                                                                   This project repr
                                                                                                     Conceptual scheme of the cryostat for testing and calibrating the Focal   engineering. It will
Figure 26. Left) The snout is composed of a 1024 TES array with its associated Plane
                                                                                  cold   readout
                                                                                     Assembly of        electronics.
                                                                                                 Athena/X-IFU. Credit:         The
                                                                                                                       INTA – C2CC    snout is
                                                                                                                                   team.               electromagnetic-the
                                                                                                                                                       performances and en
placed in the niobium shield and connected to the 50 mK stage. Superconducting looms insure the signals connection to
                                                                 82
the 500 mK terminator card and then to the 3 K cold electronics (see Castellani et al., 2022, SPIE submitted). Right)
                                                                                                                www.the-athena-x-ray-observatory.eu ACO@ifca.unican.es
Conceptual scheme of the cryostat for testing and calibrating the Focal Plane Assembly of Athena/X-IFU. Credit: INTA
– C2CC team (and AthenaNuggets62).


      centroid are either not accurately known, or can depend on chemical composition of the target and thus do
      not constitute reliable references. EBITs can produce narrower (typically tenth of eV FWHM) well-known
      X-ray lines at low energy, providing a more accurate description of the energy scale for a lower number of
      counts (approx. 5000 counts instead of 10000 for Kα lines). The use of this source has clear implications
      on the X-IFU interface due to its large volume, which will need to fit below the SIM.
    • Channel-Cut Crystal Monochromators (CCCMs)87 will also be used for more efficient energy resolution
      measurements, but also to verify the calibration of the instrument extended line spread function performed
      at TES array level.
    • A flight-like MXS and 55 Fe sources that are used to reproduce, without using the flight hardware, the
      fiducial lines expected in-flight throughout the calibration.

     Some calibration activities will be performed at system level. The extended line spread function will be
calibrated at TES array level with CCCMs as it only depends on the physics of photon absorption in the
detector. On the other hand, the X-IFU will not be exposed to a synchrotron beam to calibrate its quantum
efficiency, given the complexity of such test. Instead we will rely on a set of measurements at sub-system level
(thermal filters and TES array).
    The possibility of irradiating a representative FPA by protons was also investigated as a way to validate
the models used for the computation of the expected NXB. This was not followed up in favor of more focused
verification activities of the key processes dominating the X-IFU background (electron back scattering on XIFU-
like absorber samples and secondary electron production in the kapton-coated Nb shield). For the calibration of
the NXB, we plan to perform long dark exposures with the filter wheel in the closed position, further relying on
a high-performance radiation monitor tracking variations of the charged particle environment.

       7. OVERVIEW OF THE X-IFU INSTRUMENT SCIENCE CENTER (X-ISC)
The X-IFU Instrument Science Center (X-ISC) is an integral part of the instrument delivery. It will be developed
within the X-IFU Consortium, with the activities ramping up 5 to 7 years before launch. Prime contributors
to the X-ISC are France, Switzerland, and Italy (see Figure 27). The X-ISC includes responsibilities for X-IFU
instrument operations and calibration. In conjunction, the X-ISC will be responsible for instrument performance
evaluation, instrument calibration and trend monitoring during the mission operations, contiguous with their
role in instrument testing, characterisation and calibration pre-launch. The X-ISC will generally be responsible
for the provision of all detailed instrument knowledge and expertise to successfully operate the instrument. It
